Well, one thing you and I have talked about, one of
the things that Jack Williams did better than
anyone I've ever known is to write one, two, or
three sentence notes to people. And it just had the
ability to make everyone feel good. This is
written For me, it's not something that's spit out
of a computer or anything like that. It's not
something that someone else had drafted for me.
And again, that's one of the things that I wish that
I had and don't.
Obviously, it didn't take him a long time to write.
It may have taken a long time to think, because they
were always so well stated. It just would have been
hard to improve on either. He had good wit about
him. Physically, he made a very attractive
appearance. And he was obviously bright and very
articulate. So it just had a lot going for him. One
of the things I never understood, he was always
there, there, there in Radisson to talk about his
military service and his decorations and his
having been wounded. Right. I never heard him say
anything about any of that. It was as if he didn't
want anybody to think that he was trying to compete
with Earl Rudder. That's the only thing I can think
of. Well, you know, the only thing I remember He was
obviously proud to have been a Marine. We didn't
hear about his record, but he was not reticent to
tell you he'd been a Marine. As far as you can be as an
objective observer, if there were any board
members that disagreed or disliked, disagreed
with or disliked something about Jack Williams,
what were their
I think there were probably some board members who
would have been more comfortable with a president
with an engineering, science, technology
background
than one from humanities.
I think there were some who thought maybe he didn't
give agriculture and engineering as much
attention as perhaps they believe they deserve.
I think that there were some board members who
might have been happier if Jack Williams had been a
little more prone to say what he knew they would
like to hear rather than what he believed they
needed to hear.
So he was not always politic in some of his
statements to the board and the public about the
board. He might have been as skillful as he was. I
can't believe he didn't recognize what he was
doing. But I'm assuming that he believed a greater
good call for him to do what he was doing. Because as
I think back about those two men, I can't think of
many openings, if any, that existed that each of
them didn't use. We almost got to South Texas. But
as I recall, it was only on the condition that
never, never, never would any of those courses be
taught anywhere else but in Houston, something
like that. And Dr. Williams, as I recall, said, no,
if we're going to have a law school, I want at least
part of it to be here. Right. And I know that, I say I
know, I believe that he did want to have a law school
at Texas A&M. Let's see. Let's go back and talk
about President's wives, Mrs. Rutter and Mrs.
Williams. Well, Mrs. Rutter, you know, amazing in
that I'm sure there must have been someone else,
maybe several others, of whom I'm not aware, but
Mrs. Rutter is still a living legend at Texas A&M
today. And when you think how long her husband has
been dead, and the reverence that she still held
him today is remarkable. And I always thought of
Ms. Rudder as being someone like Lady Bird
Johnson. And I don't know Lady Bird Johnson, but I
think that Ms. Rudder and Lady Bird Johnson at
least appear to have been those who could smooth
the ruffled feathers that might have been created
by their spouses. And I've never heard anyone
speak unkindly about the other. And I think they
were great assets for their husbands. I think that
Mrs. Rutter has seen much more prominent now than
she did while he was president. Well, I felt she was
then, too. I just thought that, to me, Mrs. Rutter
is someone who men like and women like. There's no
jealousy. She's not pretentious. She's very
proud of her children and her children like all
other children. They didn't grow up without some
bumps in some of their roads. She didn't try to hide
it. She was proud to have the children. So I think
she was just
a complete asset for Earl Rutherford and for Texas
A&M. Mrs. Williams. Mrs. Williams, I didn't know
her. And I think that says something about it. I
think that she probably preferred it that way. She
was not doing it in public. And her appearance
in the school, she was much happier being less
visible and obviously didn't operate it. feel any
need to compete with the reputation that Mr. Weber
had. But I also had the feeling that he was very
strong.
Alright, let's jump back then to Jarvis. It's now
the summer of 1980 and you and I know now that Jarvis
would be terminated by the board. Were you aware of
any of that coming? I was not surprised. As I told
you earlier, when Frank Hewitt was Dean of Liberal
Arts and Education, I ranked him certainly as one
of the top administrators, university
administrators I'd ever known, and maybe the
tops.
I thought he, I viewed him very differently after
he became Chancellor. Since I have a theory for
everything, my theory about this is that I think
there were board members who were committed to
weakening the role of
the president of Texas A&M. I think that they
believed that that person had just had too much
power and had used it and had not been as sensitive
to the role of the board as they would like for that
person to have been. And I have imagined that it was
a possibility, not a likelihood, that they told
Frank Hewitt
that they wanted to develop a strong assistant
officer, and the chancellor being a strong
chancellor. If that happened, and
everything that Frank Hewitt did made perfect
sense, then clearly the authority of the
president of Texas A&M diminished. Do you
remember some particular differences,
disagreements between Ebert and Jarvis? I think
the main differences were over money. There was a
lot of relatively flexible money available
within the university, and I think Jarvis was
predisposed toward making decisions. about the
allocation
of those
funds within
the President's office and with a couple of very
close advisors. And since George's background
was in agriculture, I think it was viewed at least
that maybe agriculture was getting more than its
fair share. And from some board members' point of
view, it's my belief. that
they believe engineering was not getting the
attention they deserve.
Are you aware of any particular disagreements
you've had with any of the deans over our patients?
No, I'm not. And with Mack? Mack was very closely
involved with Jarvis in the allocation of funds.
He and, as far as I'm aware, the two of them were
fairly... And Howard Vestal. And Howard Vestal
were, okay. Now, let's talk about some of those
people. Describe Professor Vestal and what his
task was and his talents. Howard was a retired Air
Force officer.
a nice man, jovial,
and at the same time, he'd been a colonel, and would
be treated like a colonel, and thought like a
colonel, and acted like a colonel. With all those
things, he was still a really nice person, so a nice
combination of things. Howard always impressed
me as someone that I would trust. But
I'm convinced that there's got to be a school
somewhere for our vice presidents for finance and
our business. And the number one thing that they
learn and the thing you have to prove that you've
learned before you graduate is that you never tell
anyone all there is to know about where the money
is. So vice presidents of business seem to like to
have, you know, some discretion about where the
money is and be able to come up with some funds that
will literally let a president do what the
president really would like to do. That makes the
vice president of business a very, very important
person. But, you know, again, we had a series of
events because Earl Rudder obviously developed a
very image and often his land commissioner and his
views had a lot of integrity. And then he brought
Clark Diebel, who I understand was told, you know,
I want you to let me do what I want to do, but I'm going
to keep me out of Huntsville too. And I think Clark
was again
one of those that had a lot of integrity. And so I
think we were blessed with a series of people in the
financial office during that period of time. that
helped A&M develop a very good reputation in
Brazos County and in Austin. And I think Howard
continued that. Who was the Chief Financial
Officer? After Tom Cherry.
During Williams'
administration? Yeah, that's right. I think it
probably changed with him and then with George. He
was the number two man for a time. Right. Then the
chief student officer during those years. Well,
during those years, John Coates. John came from
East Texas,
now Texas A&M University at Congress. John was a
really good selection. One of my better
judgments, I was asked to apply for that job and
chose not to. They chose the right person. John was
a very good choice. I remember the part of the, one
of the luncheons, one of the luncheons, I was there
over on the Rudder Tower. And I was nicely
impressed with Cole. That's when I thought, gee,
surely we can do better than somebody from Texas.
What made him such a good student officer? I think
the fact that he's so outgoing with students and
everyone else. He was certainly not anywhere
close to being typical at A&M. I'm always kind of
surprised that John has said, ever since I've
known him, he's a kisser and a hugger to me. And so he
was a lot more hands-on in a socially acceptable
way with a lot of people. And again, I think John was
creative
in a lot of the programs he brought to student
services.
So to me he made a, what I would guess would be a
pretty big adjustment from a Commonwealth
student to A&M. But I'm going to get into a student
life program that I can
be very proud of. Can you think of any special
decisions or transitions that coupled this?
Well, I'm not sure how it evolved, but we got away
from the Dean of Men and Dean of Women approach, and
I think that was probably the national trend. But
we had a fairly tumultuous period for a short
period of time. My brother, Toby Shriver, he
changed the name, I think, three times in two
years. We hired her under one name. She came here
with another name, and then she took a third name,
and she went back to Shriver.
as needing women.
I think John made the right decision on what to do
about some personnel matters. I think there were
some things that happened that might not have been
John's first choice, but he handled them very
well. There had been a disagreement among board
members and some of the university
administrators about additional on-campus
housing. For a while, the decision appeared to be
that we were not going to do it anymore. We'd let the
community take care of that, and we realized the
community wasn't taking care of that. So then we
built several more dorms. So I think the student
life program at A&M has done very well. Thanks to a
lot of people, I think the student services
through the MSC have been very good. And I said,
John,
you seem to be at the lead go with the flow, make sure
they went in the right direction. All right, now
I'm about to go off into areas that I know almost
nothing about. I learned the night we arrived in El
Paso to begin our new task out there that Jarvis had
been terminated here. How did your assignment
change after Jarvis was no longer president, or
did it change? Not
really. It was obvious that Frank Hubert
had won in the eyes of the board. And that's when
Chuck Sampson
came in to serve as interim president.
Chuck's style was very different from Jarvis's.
How so? Well, as I said, Jarvis had more of what I
think was the ag-slash-political approach. He
was very interested and concerned in the sense
that things that were happening could be
happening and might happen in Austin. Chuck, as a
former department head in engineering, I think
had the engineering approach and he was much more
methodical and much more analytical.
I think Chuck
probably wanted a lot more information than he was
likely to get before he would make the decision.
And constantly I think some of the decisions were
not made. as quickly as they might have been. Did he
bring any staff with him? Not that I
can remember. He took often three briefcases and
stuff with him home each night.
I don't think you can find a better person than
Chuck
Simms. As far as y'all were aware here, Was he
hoping he would be considered for the task
permanently? I certainly had that feeling. That
would have been my guess. And when did you all learn
that he wasn't going to? I think there were a couple
presentations to board members that he made that
were As far as you know, who were the board members
calling
in? Who were the most
impressionable, the most influential board
members?
I
guess... I don't think Peter Bell was in honor, but
he was certainly not more influential when he was
honored. Ross Wiseman was always a dominant
member of the board. I don't know if there was a
board member calling the shots then. I don't know
who it was. I don't know. Bumbright, I guess, would
be number one. When I chat with... McKenzie. Bill
McKenzie. I bet so. See, what I'm hoping to build up
to is to know what questions to ask them. Okay, then
when did y'all become aware that the president of
North Texas State might be the new president here?
Very late. Bunbright, as I remember, had made an
announcement that we would have a new president
named by a certain point in time. And the time was
getting very close. And then I think most of us were
surprised when Frank Bannon offered the job and
had accepted
it. And I think that there was some who believed
that the announced date of the driving force in the
selection process.
When did Frank Menninger first, when did y'all
first see him, meet with him? I guess right after he
became the board. So there was no first
presentation? Not that I know of. Describe his
leadership style.
Exciting. Frank
is one of the most interesting people I've ever
known in my life.
He can be so presidential at times, it's just
awe-inspiring. All of a sudden he's changing his
mind quickly.
I served as interim vice president for Aging
Affairs for a period of time and I felt I needed to be
very flexible because there would be some times
that Frank might be expected to be somewhere else.
His plans would change and so he had to have plan B
ready all the time. But again, he's bright, and
he's articulate, and he's very, very charming.
Now the, he, did Mack, Mack remain? Yes. And
retired? And
so that Frank made no particular personnel
changes in the leadership team? Not in the
leadership team, except as I said, I became the
vice president. He brought in Sharon Riley, who
proved, I think, to do a very good job. And he
brought Eddie Joe back from North Texas. to be the
chief financial officer.
Then Gordon Eaton, you were interim and then
Gordon Eaton? Correct. Talk about Gordon and his
style. Gordon Eaton was a very bright, charming,
thoughtful,
sensitive man. He was admired,
I think, by almost all the faculty.
Again, never trying to impress them with his
background, but was impressive with his
background. One of the easiest people to talk to
that I've ever met. One of the things that that I
liked about his statement. I never felt that he
suggested there might be another way he might want
to consider something before he made the
decision. And as I said earlier, he had to be very
careful because if he made the suggestion, he
might not well do it. It didn't turn out what he
felt.
He's a very confident person in himself. can deal
with anyone
faculty legislators like experience with the u.s
geological survey must have served
him well i think one of the most thoughtful men i've
ever met any key decisions during this one of the
Gordon wasn't, you know, in that role very long. A
couple years, three years maybe. And then, then do
you go to Iowa State with him? With him. With him,
that's right. And that's when? In, uh, 86? 86.
Okay. Alright, now, so then let's look back. Uh,
who were some special students that you may have
worked with, advised, or known, that you now hold
warmly in your heart?
One person who got me on the course was Ken Capeley.
Ken was one of those obvious student leaders when
he was here. He was involved with the Liberal Arts
Student Council.
Two of the things that I felt good about the Liberal
Arts Student Council, primarily, I guess, they
helped me do what I'd like to get done, and that is
convert from the three-point grading system to
the four-point grading system. Because we were
one of the very few institutions in the country in
the three-point. And the Liberal Arts Student
Council was the one that advanced the idea of going
to the four-point system. And the other was the
QDROP policy. And I remember You know, working
with Kent, I was the advisor for the student
council, and working with him to try to get the
QDROP accepted, and it was rejected. And then when
Kent came back on the staff with Jack Williams, it
went through verbatim. And I remember telling
Kent, when he was a student, you know, I said, Kent,
you don't win everything. I said, this is bad and
nasty. I said, sometimes someone plows the soil,
and someone plants a seed, and someone fertilizes
it, and somebody waters it, and someone else may
gather the fruit. But when it did pass, I pulled it
out and gave it to Kent to remind him that he had been
a major player in preparing the ground. Roger
Miller, who was a journalism major, who I thought
was very talented, I had hoped would also run the
politics. Chet Edwards was another one. They were
all here at the same time.
Those were probably the three that came along
together that I thought a lot about. One that is
different, but it's kind of interesting how
people, you can influence someone. This one I
didn't, but anyway. I have a grandson who played at
Westlake this year, as you know. And so his father
and mother hosted the Westlake football team for
Thursday night meals for 13 weeks. And so it came up
that Myna Brees, Myna Adkins when she was here,
is the mother of Drew Brees who was the quarterback
at Purdue. And so Gary and Myna were in school at the
same time here. And so it came up in the
conversation that I was Gary's father-in-law. So
Gary made a point that we'd meet at one of the
Westlake football games. And so she reminded me
that I had given her an award as a liberal arts
student. And she was one of the first Diamond
Darlings. And her brother is Marty Akins. And her
father was a high school coach for a long time. And
so I was talking to her about Drew, you know, not
coming to A&M, and it was obvious she was not very
happy
because Drew had been told he'd be invited for a
visit to A&M and never had the invitation offered.
And so, anyway, he's done fairly well at Purdue
this year. Your proudest moments as you look back?
I think the proudest moment was not a moment in
time, but I would like to think that I was viewed as
someone who helped get things done.
I think degree-wise, program-wise,
facility-wise,
being the chairman of the master planning
committee One of the things that I'm very proud of
is that when I first got involved in the master
planning committee, I had a list of all the
buildings that were going to be torn down, and it
was almost everything. And I'd like to think that I
was one of them who said, you know, the diversity of
that architecture on the campus is an asset. And so
there are a lot of buildings still standing that
were renovated and all that, and we're scheduled
to be torn down. The Ag building over by the
library,
the pavilion was going to be torn down.
Most of the old quad buildings were scheduled to be
torn down. And I just thought that would have been
tragic. And so anyway, you look around the campus
and say, well, we had some influence on some of
those things. So it's really, someone asked me,
you know, what it's like to be a university
administrator. And I tried to give an honest
answer. And when I picked someone up, I said, well,
the way you described it, why would anyone want to
be one? And I said, well, I didn't really intend to
do that.
But I said, you know, to me, if you think you know
what a good university is about, you're much more
likely to influence the direction of the
university as an administrator than you are as a
faculty member. And that's the satisfaction. To
believe that A&M or Iowa State are better
institutions today and that you helped make them.